<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 24 APR 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>24 APR 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/31f00434-f01b-431d-a9d9-4ef690dd7c6d/20240424T150000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, julianFlake, markLizar, paulRyan, steveHickman, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Automation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Meeting with EC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Justifications</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Involvement/Active concepts</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">Involvement concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Active/Passive Data Subject</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Informed concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Intent concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Generic controls</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t10">Tech and AI extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">NIS2/ISO27001 vocab</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">Next meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-04-24">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-04-24</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Automation</h3>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary> Discussed Automation concepts - okay to continue with them.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Meeting with EC</h3>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> presented DPV to the Commission with Georg, it went over time - but good positive response. Discussed DPV and in particular consent and DGA.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Justifications</h3>
<p id=x017 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/83">Issue 83</a></strong> Create new Justifications extension (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Modified the justifications to remove prefix and suffix and make them more 'useful' in different contexts. To be reviewed by beatriz. See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/83#issuecomment-2068059917">w3c/<wbr>dpv#83 (comment)</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Involvement/Active concepts</h3>
<h4 id=t05>Involvement concepts</h4>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> For Involvement, Permissive and Non-Permissve Involvement were discussed and accepted -  see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108#issuecomment-2074726016">w3c/<wbr>dpv#108 (comment)</a></p>
<p id=x024 class=summary> Question about ReversingOutputs and ReversingEffects - what's the difference. To continue discussion next week based on comments on the issue.</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> Question about opt-in <em> opt-out </em> withdraw - clear distinction in usage note should be provided</p>
<h4 id=t06>Active/Passive Data Subject</h4>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116">Issue 116</a></strong> Add Intended and Active Data Subject categories (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> Discussed and accepted to have generic involvement e.g. <code>hasActiveInvolvement</code> and <code>EntityActivelyInvolved</code> to indicate any active involvement of entities</p>
<p id=x029 class=summary> Accepted <code>isDeterminedBy</code> for expressing determination</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> <code>hasActiveDataSubject</code> and <code>hasPassiveDataSubject</code> to be kept as proposed to see if they are needed as other properties should be sufficient, along with <code>DataSubjectActivelyInvovled</code> and <code>DataSubjectPassivelyInvolved</code></p>
<h4 id=t07>Informed concepts</h4>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Discussed and accepted having informed as a status. See <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/116#issuecomment-2067615791">w3c/<wbr>dpv#116 (comment)</a></p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> Specialisations for Data Subject, Controller, Recipient, and Authority</p>
<h4 id=t08>Intent concepts</h4>
<p id=x036 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/108">Issue 108</a></strong> Revise Automation and HumanInvolvement concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x037 class=summary> Discussed about whether intent should be a status of a generic concept - and if generic then how to describe it? E.g. <code>IntendedActivity</code> or <code>IntendedPurpose</code>. Same for Expected - which is distinct from intended as it refers to things not under control</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s02"><cite>steveHickman:</cite> are we modelling this as a boolean or is there stuff in between?</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> Discussed that this is modelling the two possible distinct values - there could be stuff in between which we can add later</p>
<h4 id=t09>Generic controls</h4>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/115">Issue 115</a></strong> Add Measures for Obtain, Withdraw, etc. for Consent and other Actions (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x042 class=summary> Discussion regarding whether these controls are still needed given the involvement concepts (e.g. opt-in). Proposal to keep these controls limited to generic actions e.g. obtain information, obtain action, etc. which can be combined with other controls or consent</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s03"><cite>steve:</cite> do we need this level of details?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s04"><cite>julian:</cite> are these distinct terms as compared to involvement e.g. withdraw?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> agree that these are confusing, we can repurpose this to instead have generic controls to obtain information, perform information, etc. to support an entity to describe how they are providing e.g. opt-in or ability to withdraw</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>julian:</cite> would be good to have examples</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Tech and AI extension</h3>
<p id=x048 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47">Issue 47</a></strong> Specifying "Cloud Computing" in DPV-TECH (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x049 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/126">Issue 126</a></strong> AI Extension to provide AI-specific concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x050 class=summary> See see <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/47#issuecomment-2074762318">w3c/<wbr>dpv#47 (comment)</a> </p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> tech/org measures from DPV shouldn't be duplicated in TECH to create categories of different technologies; all categories should be added to DPV's TOM taxonomy</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> TECH extension only provides information such as provider (actors), or provision method (e.g. cloud), network connectivity (e.g. bluetooth), environment (e.g. smartphone app) etc.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> AI extension will be a completely separate and detached extension from TECH that will provide a taxonomy of techniques, capabilities, etc. for AI</p>
<p id=x054 class=summary> Discussed and okay to go ahead with this approach, and discuss it next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>AI Act</h3>
<p id=x056 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/106">Issue 106</a></strong> Propose concepts from the AI Act (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we will publish the rest of the concepts that we have (for now) as draft and continue working on it</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s05"><cite>delaram:</cite> let's ask people who are working on specific articles of the act to provide concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>NIS2/ISO27001 vocab</h3>
<p id=x060 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/123">Issue 123</a></strong> Add concepts from ENISA SotA Tech/Org Measures (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Rob has a Master's student Jenni who is working on this and will be </p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s05"><cite>delaram:</cite> AI Act article 15 (or so) has relevant requirements for cybersecurity, accuracy, and quality which would be relevant here</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t13>Next meeting</h3>
<p id=x064 class=summary> The next meeting will be in 1 week on WED 01 May 14:00 WEST / 15:00 CEST. Agenda continued from today's discussions.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
